steal bikes are making a comeback in the
cycling community the craft of building
a top-level steel frame is something
which takes a lot of skill and
experience and there are many companies
in the world who have more of that than
Colnago who started making steel frames
back in 1952
the latest in the Colnago steel range is
the master and we got to see one being
made at their Factory in Italy by Aldo
Sony who has been making frames for the
company for almost 40 years this
particular model was first built back in
the 80s making of a steel frame is much
more hands-on than that of a similar
carbon one
one similarity though to their c59
carbon frame is the use of lugs tubes
are first pinned and then later welded
into each lug starting with the front
triangle
once the front triangle is complete its
then time to place it onto a rig where
the chain seat stays put in place the
use of a hammer doesn't look
particularly elegant but it's the only
way to ensure everything is seated in
the correct position
tubes are straight into the right angle
in the lugs by hand and much of the
early process is perfected by an
experienced eyes cable routing is of
course external and so the outer cable
end stops are welded to the tubes once
the frame is set into position
the extensive welding process can
commence
one of the final parts of the process to
mill out the bottom bracket shell ready
for a threaded bottom bracket
the final quality control process is
extensive various instruments are used
to make sure that everything is in line
and central now the frame is as good as
complete and will be sent off to be
painted in one of the three color
schemes to find out how a Colnago c59
frame is made click here